[Music]
well what a fantastic day the weather's
nice it's Friday and today's your
birthday you're walking down the street
with a pep in your step when boom
everything goes black
you've been blindfolded and your hands
are tied you feel yourself being put in
the trunk of a car and the vehicle takes
off and nope and ain't no birthday party
it's time to panic
not at all the main thing for you now is
to collect your thoughts analyze the
situation and be very attentive get
control of your breathing deep breath in
count to five and exhale have you calmed
down are you ready to get out of this
situation the smart way good but let's
back up a little when you were walking
down the street you might have seen
someone shadow behind you or heard
footsteps I know nobody pays attention
to this stuff especially when we all
have our eyes on our phones and our ears
are plugged with music but that's
exactly the problem you should always be
a little vigilant and aware of your
surroundings the very beginning is the
most crucial part start screaming
immediately and resist with all your
might the perp might not have expected
all this trouble and you could break
free if you find yourself in the trunk
or backseat of a car yelling will be
useless save your strength except if you
feel the car stop and you'll hear other
people's voices in this case call for
help as loud as possible if they start
by tying you up make fists and tense up
all your muscles if the Rope goes around
your body puff out your chest just don't
be too obvious about it all this will
help make the ties looser when you relax
your muscles later if they tie your
hands in front of you keep your wrists
closer to your body this will create a
small gap between your wrists the
perfect place to put something sharp to
cut the rope if you're dragged into a
car immediately try to block the
ignition or put the key out and throw it
far away you can block the ignition with
a coin a piece of metal chewing gum
anything that'll keep the key out and
at the car from taking you away or at
least buy you some time if you didn't
manage to do that then first assess your
physical state adrenaline can numb your
nerves once you've calmed down a bit
check yourself is it comfortable for you
to breathe
can you move all your limbs easily no
visible marks anywhere good you're okay
now
evaluate your physical abilities did the
muscle tensing thing work do you have
some wiggle room in your ties perhaps
you can see through whatever's covering
your eyes these are your advantages keep
them secret if possible get to the rear
seats through the trunk it'll be much
easier to escape from there and the
perpetrator won't see it coming if you
can't do any of that look for a jack or
some other heavy object when the car
stops and the bad guy opens the drunk
you'll have some protection make a
mental note of all the details of the
trip how many times the car stopped
which way it turned visualize the road
count the time between turns left 45
seconds right 125 seconds you might even
be able to figure out the route then if
you managed to call someone you'll be
able to tell them where you are also
count how many voices you hear assess
their emotional state do they sound
nervous angry do they mention any names
or places it won't help you much now but
these details will be very important to
the police if at any point you hear them
talking about your freedom don't get too
excited you still need to be in survival
mode and getting overly relaxed might
make you inattentive think about the
reason you're in this situation
have you offended anybody do you come
from a well-off family maybe you look
like someone who does
if so then they'll probably ask ransom
for you which could be good news all
they want is money
pardon the easier said than done cliche
but try to stay positive your calmness
and friendly demeanor could make the
perp let their guard down a little they
might slip up and not notice something
important answer their questions wisely
and thoughtfully don't yell or threaten
show them that you're worthy of respect
yet harmless listen to what they say to
you you can even start a conversation
but don't overdo it
they know this trick and they'll assume
you're pretending to be polite just to
deceive them keep track of the time
however you can you can see a watch on
someone's wrist or even use the Sun if
you just can't be calm solve mental
puzzles imagine conversations with your
friends think of your best day ever
this will distract you from severe
stress your captor might give you a
phone to tell your family that you're
okay so they won't start worrying and
call the authorities for such cases you
need to have a code word or phrase on
hand for example today I had a wonderful
day as always a wonderful day as always
is your code that you're in trouble if
you somehow get a chance to call rescue
services but can't speak leave the phone
on so they can track your call don't
attempt to remove your own blindfold or
this person's mask if they don't want to
show their face that means they're
planning on letting you go without being
identified if you happen to see their
face but they didn't notice keep it to
yourself if you're trapped in a lock
room for several days keep yourself fit
push-ups squats jumping jacks jogging in
place anything you can do it's a nice
distraction and exercise improves blood
flow that'll make your thinking sharper
there might be other captives in the
room besides you don't discuss escape
plans or secret information with them
these people can rat you out in exchange
for their freedom
sometimes other hostages may be one of
the orchestrators in this scheme just
trying to find out important information
from you as much as you probably don't
want to ask the person who took you for
small favors you can ask for a blanket
or a glass of water such requests help
establish contact and at least make your
stay a little more tolerable that's if
you're held somewhere right now you're
still in the trunk and you could prevent
that unwanted stay in the first place
tear off the panel covering the
taillights then kick the lights out you
can stick your hand through the hole and
give a signal to other drivers if you
can't knock the light out disconnect the
wiring to it it will increase the
chances that police will stop the car
from missing lights oh sorry I forgot
your hands are tied the car finally
comes to a stop
sunlight doesn't leak in through the
trunk you must be in a garage the car
door opens and you hear footsteps coming
towards you click the trunk Springs open
you're pulled out and put on your feet
this person leads you through a door
down a hall into a room you try to speak
but nobody answers that's when you feel
their hand let go of your arm
someone unties you and removes the
blindfold you open your eyes it's pitch
dark all around but then surprise the
lights turn on the room is full of your
friends there's a birthday cake on the
table in front of you the strange an
elaborate scheme is how they decided to
throw you a surprise birthday party and
right now you're probably thinking yep I
really need to get me some new friends
hey if you learn something new today
then give the video a like and share it
with a friend
even the over-the-top ones here are some
other cool videos I think you'll enjoy
just click to the left or right and
remember stay on the bright side of fly